[sport];Esteban Ocon wins thrilling Hungarian Grand Prix after Lewis Hamilton fights back Alpine's Esteban Ocon took a maiden Formula 1 victory in an extraordinary and madcap Hungarian Grand Prix. Lewis Hamilton regained the world championship lead for the first time since May after fighting back to finish third having been last five laps into the race. His title rival Max Verstappen was a victim of an incident-strewn wet start but managed to salvage a point for 10th place in a badly damaged Red Bull. A race featuring an opening first few laps among the most remarkable in Formula 1 history left Hamilton with a six-point lead over Verstappen as the sport goes into its three-week summer break. A pile-up at the first corner on a slippery track left Hamilton briefly leading Ocon and Aston Martin's Sebastian Vettel on the first lap before the race was red-flagged to clear up the mess strewn over the track. Extraordinarily, when the race restarted, Hamilton was the only car on the grid for a second start as every other driver made pit stops for dry-weather slick tyres because the sun had come out and the track was almost dry. Hamilton had to stop at the end of the next lap, dropping to the tail of the field, leaving Ocon to fend off Vettel for the rest of the race. Vettel tried to pass a number of times, but Ocon - a former Mercedes young driver - held on for the entire 70 laps to take a superb first win. Ocon's team-mate Fernando Alonso played an important role in securing the win for the Frenchman, defending valiantly against Hamilton for 10 laps in the closing stages. Hamilton, having fought his way back up to fourth from last, made a pit stop with 23 laps to go to fit fresh tyres and make a bold bid for victory. The Mercedes driver had the pace to make it happen and might have done, had Alonso not held him off for lap after lap with a display of tough racecraft, a couple of times just on the edge of acceptability. After Hamilton finally got past Alonso with five laps to go, he passed Ferrari's Carlos Sainz two laps later and charged up to the front two, finishing just 0.8secs behind Vettel, with Sainz fourth and Alonso fifth. After the race, Hamilton went to see the Mercedes doctor because he was suffering from fatigue and dizziness. He said in the news conference later that he had been struggling with his fitness all year after contracting Covid-19 last December.
[sport];Tokyo Olympics: Lamont Marcell Jacobs claims shock 100m gold Italy's Lamont Marcell Jacobs claimed a shock gold in the Olympic 100m final, after Great Britain's Zharnel Hughes was disqualified for a false start. Jacobs, who only switched away from long jump in 2018, streaked clear to win in 9.80 seconds, 0.04 clear of American Fred Kerley. Canada's Andre de Grasse won a second successive Olympic bronze in third. World champion Christian Coleman and Trayvon Bromell, the world's fastest in 2021, were both absent from the final. Coleman, banned for whereabouts failures after missing three drugs tests, and Bromell, eliminated in the semi-finals, were joined on the sidelines by the long-retired defending champion Usain Bolt. Few would have picked Jacobs, who was born in Texas to an American father but moved to his mother's Italian homeland before his first birthday, as the Jamaican great's successor. Jacobs only broke the 10-second barrier for the first time in May. But the European indoor 60m champion carried the momentum from his fast start all the way to the line to register a time faster than Bolt's winning mark in Rio. He was greeted by compatriot Gianmarco Tamberi, who had won a joint high-jump gold just minutes before and wrapped him in the Italian flag and an embrace. "I don't know, it's a dream, a dream, it is fantastic," said Jacobs. "Maybe tomorrow I can imagine what they are saying, but today it is incredible." Second-placed Kerley admitted Jacobs was a new name to him. "I really didn't know anything about him. It was my first time racing him at the Monaco Diamond League [where Jacobs finished third in 9.99 seconds]," he said. "He did a fantastic job." Hughes will be left to wonder what might have been in a final stripped of its usual stars and big names. His clear false start brought back memories of defending champion Linford Christie's disqualification at Atlanta 1996 and denied him a shot of joining the most prestigious honour roll in athletics. Hughes, who made the same mistake at last month's British Championships, said it was the result of a sudden cramp in his calf.
[sport];British and Irish Lions: Stuart Hogg denies allegations of biting British and Irish Lions full-back Stuart Hogg has denied allegedly biting Willie le Roux during the side's defeat by South Africa in the second Test. Hogg responded after accusations "surfaced online" following the 27-9 defeat in Cape Town by the Springboks which levelled the series at 1-1. "I would like to categorically deny any foul play," said Scotland captain Hogg. "I would never bite an opponent and I am annoyed and upset by this unsubstantiated accusation." He added: "I've always been proud of playing rugby in the spirit of the game." The Lions won the first Test 22-17 but, after losing the second, the decider will take place on Saturday, 7 August. "Respect to the Springboks for their deserved win," said Hogg. "The squad is hurting after the defeat, but it's all to play for next week. It's going to be a cup final and everyone's going to be up for it."
[business];Monzo bank in money laundering rules investigation Digital bank Monzo is being investigated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) over potential breaches of financial crime regulations, the bank has disclosed. The financial watchdog sent letters to several retail banks including Monzo in May, warning of failings in their anti-money laundering controls. Monzo said it was complying fully with the FCA's investigation. This comes on the back of customer complaints Monzo received in 2020. A Monzo spokesperson said the bank took the prevention of financial crime "extremely seriously". "Over the past year we have made major investments in our controls in this area as a priority and will continue to invest heavily in this part of the business. "The FCA's investigation remains at an early stage. Our operations are unaffected and we remain committed to serving our customers." In 2020, hundreds of Monzo customers claimed they were left without access to money when their accounts were suddenly frozen during the first coronavirus lockdown, according to the Guardian. In response to the Guardian investigation, the mobile app-based challenger bank unblocked a customer's account and apologised, saying "we don't always get this right". However, it said that in 95% of cases, it had made the right decision in freezing accounts. An FCA spokesman told the BBC that the financial watchdog was unable to comment on ongoing investigations. "In May 2021, the FCA notified us that it had started an investigation into our compliance with the Money Laundering Regulations 2017, potential breaches of some of the FCA Principles for Businesses and related FCA rules for anti-money laundering and financial crime systems and controls between 1 October 2018 to 30 April 2021," Monzo said in its annual report. The online bank said that the financial watchdog was "reviewing and investigating" its compliance with financial crime regulations, and that the investigation was still "at an early stage", meaning that it would take some time to be resolved. "This could have a material negative impact on our financial position, but we won't know when or what the outcome will be for some time," Monzo added. The challenger bank reported a 23% jump in new customers to 5 million, compared with 2020, while pre-tax losses rose 13% to £130m. It has yet to make a profit.
[business];Amazon hit with $886m fine for alleged data law breach Amazon has been hit with an $886.6m (£636m) fine for allegedly breaking European Union data protection laws. The fine was issued by Luxembourg's National Commission for Data Protection, which claimed the tech giant's processing of personal data did not comply with EU law. Amazon said it believed the fine to be "without merit", adding that it would defend itself "vigorously". A spokeswoman told the BBC there had been "no data breach". The EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) rules requires companies to seek people's consent before using their personal data or face steep fines. Luxembourg's data protection authority, also known as Commission Nationale pour la Protection des Données (CNPD), issued the fine to Amazon on 16 July, according to a US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filing by the company on Friday. In response, Amazon said: "We believe the CNPD's decision to be without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter." The fine comes following rising regulatory scrutiny of large tech companies due to concerns over privacy and misinformation, as well as complaints from some businesses that the tech giants have abused their market power. The Wall Street Journal reported in June that Amazon could be fined more than $425m under the European Union's privacy law. Amazon is by no means the first large company to fall foul of the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), but this fine is the largest there has been since the law came into effect in 2018 - and by a very significant margin. The regulation introduced strict limits on the way in which sensitive data could be used, stored or processed. While companies such as Google, British Airways, H&M and Marriot Hotels have all faced penalties from European governments for breaching the rules, those fines were in the tens, rather than the hundreds of millions. We don't yet know exactly what Amazon did to attract such a severe penalty. However, given that national authorities are meant to take account of the gravity, duration and character of the infringement when deciding on a penalty, it must be particularly serious. What this shows is that legislation has teeth - and that even a country like Luxembourg, which has in other ways been very accommodating towards US multinationals, is willing to apply it forcefully. But so far, Amazon is also being forceful. It says it believes the Luxembourg authority's decision to be without merit, and has promised to defend itself vigorously. An Amazon spokeswoman said maintaining the "security of our customers' information and their trust" were "top priorities". "There has been no data breach, and no customer data has been exposed to any third party," she added. "These facts are undisputed." She stressed that the firm strongly disagrees with the CNPD's ruling and intends to appeal. "The decision relating to how we show customers relevant advertising relies on subjective and untested interpretations of European privacy law, and the proposed fine is entirely out of proportion with even that interpretation," she added. US tech giants, including Amazon, have been accused of "monopoly power" in recent years, which has prompted calls for the powers those companies have to be "reined in". Previously, the EU's concerns were believed to centre around the data that Amazon has access to and how it uses it, such as sensitive commercial information on third-party products like volume and price. In November, the European Commission charged Amazon with abusing its dominant position in online retail to gain an unfair advantage over competitors. Meanwhile, in May, Amazon won a court battle over €250m (£215m) in taxes it had been ordered to pay Luxembourg. The European Commission had ordered the tech giant to repay the funds as back taxes, alleging that Amazon had been given unfair special treatment, but a court overturned the order.
[business];Didi: Chinese ride-hailing giant denies plans to go private Chinese ride-hailing giant Didi has denied a report that it was considering going private to appease Chinese authorities. Its shares had soared by almost 50% in Thursday's pre-market trade after the Wall Street Journal report. Since making its US market debut a month ago the company has been targeted by authorities in Beijing. Meanwhile, some US senators have called on its financial markets regulator to investigate Chinese share listings. "The rumors about the privatization of Didi are untrue, and the company is currently actively cooperating with cybersecurity reviews," the company said on Chinese social media platform Weibo. The statement came in response to a Wall Street Journal report, which cited people familiar with the matter as saying Didi was considering delisting its share in the US as it faced increasing pressure from regulators in China. Two days after Didi shares started trading on the New York Stock Exchange, China's internet regulator ordered online stores not to offer its app, saying it illegally collected users' personal data. That sent the company's market value down sharply and it has now fallen by around a third since Didi raised $4.4bn (£3.15bn) in its initial public offering (IPO) a month ago. On Thursday, a group of Republican senators called on the country's financial markets regulator to launch an inquiry into US-listed Chinese companies. In the letter to the head of Securities and Exchanges Commission the seven lawmakers cited losses sustained by Didi investors after Beijing's took action against the company. In recent months Chinese technology companies traded in the US, Hong Kong and mainland China have seen their share prices slump as Beijing tightens its grip on the industry. Just this week authorities have cracked down on a range of online services from food delivery apps to music streaming platforms. Didi shares ended Thursday's US trading day up by 11.3%.
[politics];Tanker attack: Tensions rise as Iran and Israel trade accusations Israel's PM has said he knows "with certainty" Iran was involved in a deadly tanker attack off Oman, accusations Tehran called "baseless". Two crew members died when the MV Mercer Street, operated by an Israeli-owned firm, was attacked on Thursday. Israeli PM Naftali Bennett warned "we know how to send a message to Iran", while Tehran said it would "not hesitate to defend its interests". There have been several recent attacks on Israeli- and Iranian-operated ships. The attacks since March have been seen as tit-for-tat incidents. The BBC's security correspondent, Frank Gardner, says this undeclared shadow war - and its counter-denials - had been heating up, but the human casualties on the Mercer Street marked a significant escalation. A British security guard and a Romanian crew member died on the Zodiac Maritime-operated vessel, with the US pointing to a drone attack. Mr Bennett told a cabinet meeting on Sunday intelligence evidence existed that Iran had carried out the attack. He called on the international community to make it clear that Iran had "made a serious mistake". Iran's foreign ministry spokesman, Saeed Khatibzadeh, told reporters Israel "must stop such baseless accusations". He said of the allegations: "Whoever sows the wind reaps the whirlwind." However, UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab also blamed Iran. "We believe this attack was deliberate, targeted, and a clear violation of international law by Iran," Mr Raab said in a statement. "UK assessments have concluded that it is highly likely that Iran attacked the MV Mercer Street in international waters off Oman on 29 July using one or more Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs)." Iran has accused Israel of attacks on its nuclear sites and scientists. It comes against a backdrop of talks in Vienna that are trying to revive a 2015 international deal under which sanctions on Iran are lifted in return for commitments from Tehran to curb its nuclear programme. Western countries accuse Iran of trying to build a nuclear bomb. Iran, in turn, denies this, insisting its nuclear programme is focused on research and power generation.
[politics];Myanmar: State of emergency extended with coup leader as PM The general who took power in a coup in Myanmar in February has named himself prime minister and said emergency rule may now extend to August 2023. In an hour-long speech, Min Aung Hlaing pledged to hold a "free and fair multi-party election" but also called the elected party he removed "terrorists". Hundreds have died in continuing protests against the military coup. Many protesters were in the health care system, which has collapsed amid a massive surge in Covid-19 infections. Myanmar has so far reported 300,000 cases and 9,300 deaths, although the limited testing available suggests those numbers are vast underestimates. In the general's televised speech he accused those opposing the coup of deliberately spreading Covid-19. He spoke of "fake news and misinformation via social networks" about his government's Covid policies, calling it a "tool of bioterrorism". The BBC's Jonathan Head in Bangkok says this formed part of a strange speech, ranging from the need to grow more cotton and onions to condemnation of those trying to destroy the state and Myanmar's traditions. The general said Covid would be contained through more vaccines, extended public holidays and what he called the harmonious co-operation of the people. But our correspondent says dozens of medical personnel have been arrested and many more are in hiding since the coup, while people seeking treatment say the military is turning them away from hospitals, and restricting access to oxygen, leaving many to die in their homes. After the military seized power in February, a one-year emergency rule was announced. But the nationwide civil disobedience campaign continues, with tens of thousands of workers sacked or on strike. Gen Min Aung Hlaing insisted the country was stable, adding: "I pledge to hold multi-party elections without fail." Just what those parties will be is unclear, with the general calling the ousted National League for Democracy (NLD) and its supporters "extremists [who] chose the act of terrorism instead of doing or solving it in line with the law". NLD leader Aung San Suu Kyi has been detained since the coup and faces a range of criminal charges. Burmese human rights activist Aung Kyaw Moe told the BBC the general's pledge of an election was "a lie and it's not going to be happening... the people of Myanmar wouldn't trust such kind of promises".
[politics];Sky News Australia barred for week by YouTube over Covid misinformation YouTube has barred Sky News Australia from uploading new content for a week, saying it had breached rules on spreading Covid-19 misinformation. It issued a "strike" under its three-strike policy, the last of which means permanent removal. YouTube did not point to specific items but said it opposed material that "could cause real-world harm". The TV channel's digital editor said the decision was a disturbing attack on the ability to think freely. Sky News Australia is owned by a subsidiary of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp and has 1.85 million YouTube subscribers. The ban could affect its revenue stream from Google. A YouTube statement said it had "clear and established Covid-19 medical misinformation policies based on local and global health authority guidance". A spokesperson told the Guardian it "did not allow content that denies the existence of Covid-19" or which encouraged people "to use hydroxychloroquine or ivermectin to treat or prevent the virus". Neither has been proven to be effective against Covid. The videos in question "did not provide sufficient countervailing context", the spokesperson said. Sky News Australia said it had found old videos that did not comply with YouTube's policies and took its "commitment to meeting editorial and community expectations seriously". But it denied any of its hosts had ever denied the existence of Covid-19. Millions of Australians are currently in lockdown to prevent the spread of the contagious Delta variant, while fewer than 15% of the population are fully vaccinated. Comments by veteran Sky presenter Alan Jones have triggered debate in Australia. In one 12 July broadcast with MP Craig Kelly, both men claimed Delta was not as dangerous as the original and vaccines would not help. The Sky News website issued an apology. Sydney radio host Ray Hadley said Jones's performances had "allowed conspiracy theorists, anti-vaxers... to gain support from a minority who think the virus is nothing more than a dose of flu". Australia's Daily Telegraph last week ended the column Jones wrote for it. In an article on the Sky News Australia website, digital editor Jack Houghton said that if conversation about Australia's Covid-19 policies were stifled "our political leaders will be free to act with immunity, without justification and lacking any sufficient scrutiny from the public". YouTube has issued dozens of bans over the past two years, several over Covid but most for hate speech.
[tech];Facebook, Google expect jabs for office return Big tech firms are altering their return-to-work plans for employees, as Covid-19 cases rise in the US - with some stipulating that staff working in the office must be vaccinated. Google announced that it would delay a return to the office until 18 October. The company joined Facebook in saying it would require US workers returning to the office to be vaccinated. Twitter said it would pause office re-opening, closing offices in San Francisco and New York once again. The two Twitter offices had been operating at up to 50% capacity for staff who wanted to return. In a statement, the company wrote that it was "continuing to closely monitor local conditions and make necessary changes that prioritise the health and safety of our Tweeps". Twitter said it remained committed to giving employees the option to work from home where possible. Other tech firms have also put back, or changed, return-to-work plans Apple has reportedly delayed a planned return to on-site working until October. Amazon has previously announced a three-day-a-week return to work for "corporate" staff, in a seeming shift of policy.  It comes as the US administration struggles with flagging rates of vaccination. President Biden recently ordered two million federal employees to show proof of vaccination or be subject to mandatory testing and mask-wearing. Some tech firms are now taking a similar stance. In an email to all employees on Wednesday, Google chief executive Sundar Pichai said the firm would extend a global, voluntary, work-from-home policy through to 18 October. In addition, the email said "anyone coming to work on our campuses will need to be vaccinated". The policy will be rolled out in the US, and later expand to other regions. The Google boss said its implementation of the policy would vary according to local conditions and regulations, and would only apply once vaccines are widely available in an area. More details would be forthcoming about exemptions for medical and other "protected" reasons, he added. Facebook has also announced that it would "require" US staff returning to offices to be vaccinated. In a statement, Facebook vice president Lori Goler wrote: "We will have a process for those who cannot be vaccinated for medical or other reasons, and will be evaluating our approach in other regions as the situation evolves. Ms Goler said the company's return-to-office plans would "prioritise everyone's health and safety".
[tech];Elon Musk: 'I don't want to be CEO of anything' Tesla doesn't have a press office. Its CEO, Elon Musk, says the company doesn't need one. Instead, in a similar way to Donald Trump, he uses Twitter rather than press releases to communicate. And on Friday, he was in full Elon Musk tweet mode. A new book is coming out about the Tesla CEO. One story is that in 2016 - when Tesla was in trouble - Musk reached out to Apple's Tim Cook, who he thought might want to buy the company. The story goes that Elon Musk insisted that as part of the deal, he be made CEO of Apple. Tim Cook told him where to go. Without a press office to comment on the story, I asked Musk on Twitter whether this was true. He responded: Cook & I have never spoken or written to each other ever. There was a point where I requested to meet with Cook to talk about Apple buying Tesla. There were no conditions of acquisition proposed whatsover. He refused to meet. Tesla was worth about 6% of today's value. But it was a follow up tweet that was particularly revealing Elon could be a much better CEO for Apple! Elon Musk said something similar last month whilst giving evidence in court. Talking about being CEO of Tesla, he said: "I rather hate it and I would much prefer to spend my time on design and engineering." He also gave a reason for why he continues to be Tesla boss: "I have to or, frankly, Tesla is going to die." That he is repeatedly saying he doesn't want to be CEO will worry some investors. Love him or loathe him, Musk's vision and force of personality has driven Tesla's incredible success. Tesla is by far the most valuable car company in the world. And yet it is striking that running that company isn't enough for Musk. He's the boss of Space X - which was in April awarded a contract by NASA to put people onto the moon. He also founded The Boring Company in 2016, which aims to revolutionise travel through advances in tunnelling technology. Perhaps tellingly, he is not CEO. Musk gives the impression of a man trapped. He is clearly excited by ideas, innovation, engineering - the exciting start up part of a company. But the transition from start up to large company turns the CEO position into a very different beast. Apple's Steve Jobs, Google's Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Microsoft's Bill Gates were all visionaries. The current CEOs of those companies are very different people. Apple's Tim Cook, Google's Sundar Pichai and Microsoft's Satya Nadella are more than capable leaders. But few would describe them as revolutionaries. Elon Musk on the other hand projects the image of a swashbuckling entrepreneur. You get the feeling that the often administrative process of running a company does not excite him. Along with tremendous growth, the Tesla boss has caused all sorts of headaches for Tesla shareholders. He is currently being sued by shareholders who claim the carmaker's money was wasted on buying SolarCity, which - they say - was running out of money. At the time of the deal, Mr Musk owned a 22% stake in both Tesla and SolarCity. And in 2018 he agreed to step down as Tesla Chairman after tweeting that he was considering taking Tesla off the stock market and into private ownership. Elon Musk may be the second richest person on the planet, but, strangely, he doesn't feel he has the freedom to do what he wants. He's living proof that you're never too wealthy to be stuck in a job you don't like.
[tech];Google to ban sugar-daddy apps from Play Store Google Play is changing its inappropriate-content policy to ban apps promoting "sugar dating" or "compensated sexual relationships". From 1 September, the app store will prohibit facilitating "sugar-daddy" services, often involving older men offering cash and gifts in exchange for a relationship with younger women. Critics say they differ little from prostitution, though the exchange does not always involve sex. Google also announced privacy policies. From 22 April, it will require developers to provide accurate information about the personal or sensitive user data their apps collect, use, or share. Journalists have identified a number of apps in the Play Store that explicitly or implicitly facilitate sugar dating, some with hundreds of thousands of installs. Reports suggest Google's decision may be motivated by US legislation that can make platforms liable for content that facilitates prostitution. The law, which came into effect in 2018, has seen a number of platforms tighten rules on sex work.
[entertainment];The X Factor: What became of the star-making hit show? Cast your minds back to 10 years ago, and a time when The X Factor was one of the highlights of the weekend's TV viewing. Tens of millions of people would tune in to ITV every Saturday and Sunday, alongside their friends and family as wannabe pop stars fought for their 15 minutes of fame. Some of them achieved it. But many walked away with their dreams shattered. We laughed, we cried and sang along. Many of us thought we could do better ourselves. And every so often, at the business end of the competition, some genuine stars - One Direction, Leona Lewis, JLS, Little Mix - were born. In recent years though, audiences fell by nearly half, and this week ITV confirmed it had no plans for the show to return. Its creator Simon Cowell is focussing his attentions on a fresh music panel show, entitled Walk The Line,while channel bosses have fresher formats to concentrate on, like The Masked Singer. So how did The X Factor go from four yeses to being voted off our screens?
[entertainment];Dave's new album has biggest opening week of 2021 UK rapper Dave has notched up another number one album with We're All Alone In This Together, achieving 74,000 sales with his latest release. That makes it the biggest album launch of 2021 so far, beating Olivia Rodrigo's Sour, which sold 51,000 copies in its first week. Dave's previous album Psychodrama also topped the chart on its debut in 2019. It went on to win the Mercury Prize and was named album of the year at the 2020 Brit Awards. We're All Alone In This Together has been widely praised, with The Guardian acclaiming it as "an eerie, anguished triumph". More than half of its sales - 40,354 - were on CD, vinyl and cassette, with the remaining sales coming from streaming and downloads. Dave is also seeing success in the singles chart. Clash, his collaboration with Stormzy, rises six places to number two in this week's countdown. The London-born grime star can also be found at number four with Verdansk, and number six with In The Fire. Chart rules prevent artists from having more than three songs in the Top 40 at once, otherwise Dave's album would have generated further new entries in the countdown. However, none of his songs could conquer Ed Sheeran's Bad Habits, which notches up its fifth week at number one. This week saw mannequins of Little Mix unveiled at Madame Tussauds waxworks in central London. The Mixers achieved another milestone by spending their 100th week inside the Top 10 - a record for a girl group, according to the Official Charts Company. Band member Leigh-Anne Pinnock paid tribute to her fans. "You never fail to blow us away," she said. "You're just incredible and we wouldn't be here without you." The band look set to extend their reign next week, after their collaboration with Anne-Marie, Kiss My (Uh-Oh) entered the charts at number 17. Anne-Marie is also the runner-up in the album charts, as her second full-length record, Therapy, enters at number two. That's one place higher than her debut album Speak Your Mind managed upon its release in 2018 - thanks in part to an aggressive marketing campaign that saw Therapy discounted to £4.99 at many retailers. Rodrigo's Sour falls one place to three, while KSI's All Over The Place, last week's number one, drops to four. Further down the chart, Amy Winehouse's Back To Black can be found at seven having jumped 29 places over the last seven days. Last Friday was the 10th anniversary of the British singer's untimely death at the age of 27.
[entertainment];Latitude festival: Magical, emotional... and a little bit frightening "We've had so many dreams about this," says Dream Wife's guitarist Alice Go, as the band prepare to play their first show since January 2020. "Dreams and nightmares," corrects her bandmate Bella Podpadec. "I had a dream that we couldn't find any food until just before the show - and when we did, we were so hungry we gorged ourselves," she continues. "Then we couldn't play because we were too full... And actually, I'm quite full now. I'm worried about digestion time." "The nightmare is coming true," laughs singer Rakel Mjöll. On stage an hour later, there are no signs of gastric problems as the punk trio head-bang and high-kick their way through a set so raucous it might register on the Richter scale. "Rock and roll is an extreme sport, kids," Mjöll informs the sweat-drenched crowd. "And that was the best work-out ever." Like everyone else, the band are overwhelmed at being back in gig-land for Latitude - the UK's first full-capacity festival since 2019 (alongside Sheffield's Tramlines, which also takes place this weekend). Part of the government's live event pilot scheme, Latitude has brought 40,000 mask-less but Covid-tested fans to Suffolk for three days of music, comedy, drama and entertainment. But this is no normal festival audience. Walking around Henham Park, there's an unmistakable sense of liberation amid the densely-packed music fans - many of whom started the day with a Disco Yoga session and followed that up with an old-skool hip-hop singalong in the BBC Sounds arena. They're that enthusiastic. When the relatively-unknown alt-pop artist Lynks opens the main stage at midday, he's instantly taken aback. "A mosh pit on the first song? I love it!" he marvels. "I can't believe this is my first crowd back," says pop star Mabel later in the day. "You've given me enough energy for a lifetime." After 18 months indoors, its almost like the pandemic never happened. Everyone is crammed together, whether they're dancing to Hot Chip, queuing for the portaloos or throwing paper cups of water over their fellow festival-goers. At least, I hope it's water. "Remember to stay hydrated and pace yourself when drinking alcohol," pings a message on the festival's official app at 15:30. It's already too late. Not that everyone's gone feral - that was never likely at the toddler-friendly, hedonism-free Latitude - but there's a carefree abandon that's oddly reminiscent of a bygone era (ie 2019). For the artists, the atmosphere is no less euphoric. "This is very momentous for us," says Theo Ellis of headliners Wolf Alice. "We're super-emotional, super-buzzy, super-nervous." "When we arrived and we were given our passes, there was a real unspoken moment of everyone just being incredibly emotional," adds pop singer Maisie Peters - whose cherubic pop ballad Favourite Ex is an early crowd favourite. "Performing was perfect. It felt exactly right - and like what the point of everything is. Wonderful and affirming." But many bands are also aware of how precarious the live music scene still is, especially as the UK experiences a steep rise in Covid cases. "Arriving here was surreal and magical - but a little bit frightening at the same time," says Dream Wife's Podpadec.
